Proceedings of the 1st Conference of the Asia-Paciﬁc Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics
and the 10th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing: System Demonstrations , pages 14–19
December 4 - 7, 2020. c2020 Association for Computational Linguistics14ISA: An Intelligent Shopping Assistant
Tuan Manh Lai1,2, Trung Bui2, Nedim Lipka2
1University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
2Adobe Research
Abstract
Despite the growth of e-commerce, brick-and-
mortar stores are still the preferred destina-
tions for many people. In this paper, we
present ISA, a mobile-based intelligent shop-
ping assistant that is designed to improve shop-
ping experience in physical stores. ISA assists
users by leveraging advanced techniques in
computer vision, speech processing, and natu-
ral language processing. An in-store user only
needs to take a picture or scan the barcode of
the product of interest, and then the user can
talk to the assistant about the product. The
assistant can also guide the user through the
purchase process or recommend other similar
products to the user. We take a data-driven
approach in building the engines of ISA’s nat-
ural language processing component, and the
engines achieve good performance.
1 Introduction
Shopping in physical stores is a popular option
for many people. Each week, a lot of people en-
ter supermarkets in which they are immersed with
many different product choices. In many shopping
centers, customer service representatives (CSRs)
are employed to answer questions from customers
about products. However, a customer may experi-
ence long waiting time for assistance if all CSRs
are busy interacting with other customers. There-
fore, automated solutions can increase customer
satisfaction and retention.
In this paper, we introduce a mobile-based in-
telligent shopping assistant, ISA, which is based
on advanced techniques in computer vision, speech
processing, and natural language processing. A
user just needs to take a picture or scan the bar-
code of the product of interest. After that, the user
can ask ISA a variety of questions such as product
1The work was conducted while the ﬁrst author interned
at Adobe Research.
Figure 1: ISA assists users at physical stores
features, speciﬁcations and return policies. The as-
sistant can also guide the user through the purchase
process or recommend other similar products. This
work can be used as the ﬁrst step in fully automat-
ing customer service in shopping centers. With
ISA, no CSRs will be needed as customers can
simply turn to their phones for assistance. We have
developed a fully functional prototype of ISA.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows.
Section 2 introduces some related work. Section 3
gives an overview of the design and implementa-
tion of the system. Finally, Section 4 concludes the
paper and suggests future directions.
2 Related Work
The most closely related branches of work to
ours are probably customer service chatbots for
e-commerce websites. For example, SuperAgent
(Cui et al., 2017) is a powerful chatbot that lever-
ages large-scale and publicly available e-commerce
data. The researchers demonstrate SuperAgent as
an add-on extension to mainstream web browsers.
When a user visits a product page, SuperAgent
crawls the information of the product from multi-15
Figure 2: The system overview of ISA
ple data sources within the page. After that, the
user can ask SuperAgent about the product. Un-
like SuperAgent, ISA is designed to assist users at
physical stores (Figure 1). In addition to natural
language processing techniques, ISA also needs
to use techniques in computer vision and speech
processing when interacting with the users.
3 System Description
3.1 Overview
When an in-store user wants to get more informa-
tion about a speciﬁc product, the user just needs to
take a picture or scan the barcode of the product.
The system then retrieves the information of the
product of interest from a database by using com-
puter vision techniques. After that, the user can ask
natural language questions about the product spec-
iﬁcations to the system. The user can either type
in the questions or directly speak out the questions
using voice. ISA is integrated with both speech
recognition and speech synthesis abilities, which
allows users to ask questions without typing.
Figure 2 shows the system overview of ISA. As
the ﬁgure shows, a mobile client communicates
with the backend through a well-deﬁned HTTP
REST API. This creates a separation between the
client and the server, which allows ISA to be scaled
without much difﬁculty. The backend consists of
three main components: 1) speech processing, 2)
computer vision, 3) natural language processing.
Users can chat with ISA in speech. The speech
recognition and speech synthesis are implemented
by calling third-party services. The computer vi-
sion component is responsible for recognizing the
products that the user is facing. Given an imageIntent Types Example Query
Product Speciﬁcation QA How heavy is this chair?
Recommendation Show me some other items
Purchase I want to buy this.
Chit Chat How are you doing?
Table 1: Intent Types
of a product of interest, a ﬁne-grained visual ob-
ject classiﬁcation model will be used to identify
the product and retrieve its information. This task
is challenging because many products are visually
very similar (e.g., washers and dryers usually have
similar shape). Therefore, we enhance the com-
ponent with highly accurate standard algorithms
for barcode recognition. In case it is difﬁcult for
the object classiﬁcation model to identify the prod-
uct of interest accurately, the user can simply scan
the barcode of the product. Finally, the natural
language processing component is responsible for
generating a response from a text query or ques-
tion. We will next detail each part of the natural
language processing component in the following
sections.
3.2 Intent Recognition
When ISA receives a query from a user, the in-
tent recognition engine is used to determine the
intent of the query. Based on the recognized in-
tent, the appropriate domain-speciﬁc engine will
be triggered. We deﬁne four different types of in-
tent as shown in Table 1. Intent detection can be
naturally treated as a classiﬁcation problem. In this
work we build a random forest model (Breiman,
2001) for the problem and it achieves good per-
formance. Other popular classiﬁers like support
vector machines (Haffner et al., 2003) and deep16
Figure 3: Answering questions regarding product spec-
iﬁcations
neural network methods (Sarikaya et al., 2011) can
also be applied in this case.
We create a dataset of 500 different queries and
use it to build a random forest (RF) for intent classi-
ﬁcation. Approximately 2/3 of the cases are used as
training set, whereas the rest (1/3) are used as test
set, in order to estimate the model’s performance.
We create a bag-of-words feature vector for each
query and use it as input for the RF. The number
of trees in the forest is set to be 80. For each node
split during the growing of a tree, the number of
features used to determine the best split is set to
bep
kwhere kis the total number of features of
the dataset. The accuracy of the trained RF model
evaluated on the test set is 98.20%.
3.3 Product Speciﬁcation QA
The product speciﬁcation QA engine is used to
answer questions regarding the speciﬁcations of a
product. For every product, there is a list of speciﬁ-
cations in the form of (speciﬁcation name, speciﬁ-
cation value). We formalize the task of the engine
as follows: Given a question Qabout a product P
and the list of speciﬁcations (s1; s2; :::; s M)ofP,
the goal is to identify the speciﬁcation that is most
relevant to the question Q.Mis the number of
speciﬁcations of the product, and siis the sequence
of words in the name of the ithspeciﬁcation. In
this formulation, the task is similar to the answer
selection problem. ‘Answers’ shall be individual
Figure 4: ISA recommends similar products to the user
product speciﬁcations.
Previous methods for answer selection typically
relies on feature engineering, linguistic tools, or
external resources (Wang and Manning, 2010; Heil-
man and Smith, 2010; Yih et al., 2013; Yao et al.,
2013). Recently, with the renaissance of neural
network models, many deep learning based meth-
ods have been proposed to tackle the answer se-
lection problem (Rao et al., 2016; Zhiguo Wang,
2017; Bian et al., 2017; Shen et al., 2017; Tran
et al., 2018; Lai et al., 2018a; Tay et al., 2018;
Lai et al., 2018b,c; Rao et al., 2019; Lai et al.,
2019; Garg et al., 2019; Kamath et al., 2019; Laskar
et al., 2020). These deep learning based methods
typically outperform traditional techniques with-
out relying on any feature engineering or expen-
sive external resources. For example, the IWAN
model proposed in (Shen et al., 2017) achieves
competitive performance on public datasets such
as TrecQA (Wang et al., 2007) and WikiQA (Yang
et al., 2015).
Using Amazon Mechanical Turk, a popular
crowdsourcing platform, we create a dataset of
6,922 questions that are related to 369 speciﬁca-
tions and 148 products listed in the Home Depot
website. We implement the IWAN model and train
the model on the collected dataset. The top-1 ac-
curacy, top-2 accuracy, and top-3 accuracy of the
model evaluated on a held-out test set are 85.60%,
95.80%, and 97.60%, respectively.17
Figure 5: The user purchased an ofﬁce chair with 5%
discount
In production, given a question about a product,
the trained model is used to rank every speciﬁcation
of the product based on how relevant the speciﬁca-
tion is. We select the top-ranked speciﬁcation and
use it to generate the response sentence using pre-
deﬁned templates (Cui et al., 2017). An example
of the product speciﬁcation QA engine’s outputs
is shown in Figure 3. The ﬁrst question from the
user is matched to the product weight speciﬁca-
tion, whereas the second question is matched to the
return policy speciﬁcation.
3.4 Recommendation
The recommendation engine is responsible for giv-
ing new suggestions and recommendations to users.
When a user wants to look for similar products (e.g.,
by saying “Are there any other similar products?”),
the engine will search the database for related prod-
ucts and then send the information of them to the
app for displaying to the user (Figure 4).
3.5 Purchase
The purchase engine is responsible for guiding the
user through the purchase process. When a user
wants to buy a speciﬁc product (e.g., by saying “I
would like to purchase this product.”), the engine
will ﬁrst query the database for information such as
the product listing price, available discounts, and
user payment information. After that, the engine
will craft a special response message and send it
to the client app in the user’s mobile device. The
response message will instruct the app how to assistthe user through the purchase process or provide
personalized discounts if applicable (Figure 5).
3.6 Chit Chat
The chit chat engine is used to reply to greeting
queries such as “How are you doing?” or queries
that are off the subject such as “Is the sky blue?”.
Our approach to building the engine is based on
the sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) framework
(Sutskever et al., 2014). The model consists of
two recurrent neural networks: an encoder and a
decoder. The encoder converts the input query into
a ﬁxed size feature vector. Based on that feature
vector, the decoder generates the output response,
one word at a time. The model is integrated with
the global attention mechanism (Luong et al.,
2015) so that the decoder can attend to speciﬁc
parts of the input query when decoding instead of
relying only on the ﬁxed size feature vector. We
collect about 3M query-response pairs from Reddit
and use them to train the seq2seq model. Examples
of the engine’s outputs are shown below:
Q: How are you doing?
A: I’m doing well.
Q: Is the sky blue?
A: Yes.
4 Conclusion and Future Work
In this paper, we present ISA, a powerful intelli-
gent shopping assistant. ISA is designed to achieve
the goal of improving shopping experience in phys-
ical stores by leveraging advanced techniques in
computer vision, speech processing, and natural
language processing. A user only needs to take a
picture or scan the barcode of the product of in-
terest, and then the user can ask ISA a variety of
questions about the product. The system can also
guide the user through the purchase decision or
recommend other similar products to the user.
There are many fronts on which we will be ex-
ploring in the future. Currently the product speciﬁ-
cation QA engine answers only questions regarding
the speciﬁcations of a product. We will implement
engines for addressing other kinds of questions.
We will also extend ISA to better support other
languages and informal text (Nguyen and Nguyen,
2020; Nguyen et al., 2020; Martin et al., 2020). In
addition, we will conduct a user study to evaluate
our system in the future. Finally, we wish to extend
this work to other domains such as building an as-18sistant for handling image editing requests (Brixey
et al., 2018).
5 Acknowledgments
The authors wish to thank Dr. Hung Bui (VinAI
Research) and Dr. Sheng Li (University of Georgia)
for their guidance and feedback on this project.
References
Weijie Bian, Si Li, Zhao Yang, Guang Chen, and
Zhiqing Lin. 2017. A compare-aggregate model
with dynamic-clip attention for answer selection. In
Proceedings of the 2017 ACM on Conference on
Information and Knowledge Management, CIKM
2017, Singapore, November 06 - 10, 2017 , pages
1987–1990.
Leo Breiman. 2001. Random forests. Mach. Learn. ,
45(1):5–32.
Jacqueline Brixey, Ramesh Manuvinakurike, Nham
Le, Tuan Lai, Walter Chang, and Trung Bui.
2018. A system for automated image editing
from natural language commands. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1812.01083 .
Lei Cui, Furu Wei, Shaohan Huang, Chuanqi Tan,
Chaoqun Duan, and Ming Zhou. 2017. Superagent:
A customer service chatbot for e-commerce web-
sites. In Proceedings of ACL 2017, System Demon-
strations , pages 97–102. Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics.
Siddhant Garg, Thuy Vu, and Alessandro Moschitti.
2019. Tanda: Transfer and adapt pre-trained trans-
former models for answer sentence selection. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1911.04118 .
P. Haffner, G. Tur, and J. H. Wright. 2003. Optimizing
svms for complex call classiﬁcation. In Acoustics,
Speech, and Signal Processing, 2003. Proceedings.
(ICASSP ’03). 2003 IEEE International Conference
on, volume 1, pages I–632–I–635 vol.1.
Michael Heilman and Noah A. Smith. 2010. Tree edit
models for recognizing textual entailments, para-
phrases, and answers to questions. In Human
Language Technologies: The 2010 Annual Confer-
ence of the North American Chapter of the Associa-
tion for Computational Linguistics , HLT ’10, pages
1011–1019, Stroudsburg, PA, USA. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Sanjay Kamath, B. Grau, and Y . Ma. 2019. Predicting
and integrating expected answer types into a simple
recurrent neural network model for answer sentence
selection. Computaci ´on y Sistemas , 23.
Tuan Lai, Trung Bui, Sheng Li, and Nedim Lipka.
2018a. A simple end-to-end question answering
model for product information. In Proceedings ofthe First Workshop on Economics and Natural Lan-
guage Processing , pages 38–43, Melbourne, Aus-
tralia. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Tuan Lai, Trung Bui, Nedim Lipka, and Sheng Li.
2018b. Supervised transfer learning for product in-
formation question answering. In 2018 17th IEEE
International Conference on Machine Learning and
Applications (ICMLA) , pages 1109–1114. IEEE.
Tuan Lai, Quan Hung Tran, Trung Bui, and Daisuke
Kihara. 2019. A gated self-attention memory net-
work for answer selection. In Proceedings of the
2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natu-
ral Language Processing and the 9th International
Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing
(EMNLP-IJCNLP) , pages 5953–5959, Hong Kong,
China. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Tuan Manh Lai, Trung Bui, and Sheng Li. 2018c. A
review on deep learning techniques applied to an-
swer selection. In Proceedings of the 27th Inter-
national Conference on Computational Linguistics ,
pages 2132–2144, Santa Fe, New Mexico, USA. As-
sociation for Computational Linguistics.
Md Tahmid Rahman Laskar, Jimmy Xiangji Huang,
and Enamul Hoque. 2020. Contextualized embed-
dings based transformer encoder for sentence sim-
ilarity modeling in answer selection task. In Pro-
ceedings of The 12th Language Resources and Eval-
uation Conference , pages 5505–5514, Marseille,
France. European Language Resources Association.
Minh-Thang Luong, Hieu Pham, and Christo-
pher D. Manning. 2015. Effective approaches to
attention-based neural machine translation. CoRR ,
abs/1508.04025.
Louis Martin, Benjamin Muller, Pedro Javier Or-
tiz Su ´arez, Yoann Dupont, Laurent Romary, ´Eric
de la Clergerie, Djam ´e Seddah, and Beno ˆıt Sagot.
2020. CamemBERT: a tasty French language model.
InProceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics , pages
7203–7219, Online. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Dat Quoc Nguyen and Anh Tuan Nguyen. 2020.
PhoBERT: Pre-trained language models for Viet-
namese. Findings of EMNLP .
Dat Quoc Nguyen, Thanh Vu, and Anh Tuan Nguyen.
2020. BERTweet: A pre-trained language model for
English Tweets. In Proceedings of the 2020 Con-
ference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing: System Demonstrations .
Jinfeng Rao, Hua He, and Jimmy Lin. 2016. Noise-
contrastive estimation for answer selection with
deep neural networks. In Proceedings of the 25th
ACM International on Conference on Information
and Knowledge Management , pages 1913–1916.
ACM.19Jinfeng Rao, Linqing Liu, Yi Tay, Wei Yang, Peng
Shi, and Jimmy Lin. 2019. Bridging the gap be-
tween relevance matching and semantic matching
for short text similarity modeling. In Proceedings of
the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Nat-
ural Language Processing and the 9th International
Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing
(EMNLP-IJCNLP) , pages 5370–5381, Hong Kong,
China. Association for Computational Linguistics.
R. Sarikaya, G. E. Hinton, and B. Ramabhadran. 2011.
Deep belief nets for natural language call-routing.
In2011 IEEE International Conference on Acous-
tics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP) , pages
5680–5683.
Gehui Shen, Yunlun Yang, and Zhi-Hong Deng. 2017.
Inter-weighted alignment network for sentence pair
modeling. In Proceedings of the 2017 Conference
on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Process-
ing, pages 1190–1200.
Ilya Sutskever, Oriol Vinyals, and Quoc V . Le. 2014.
Sequence to sequence learning with neural networks.
InNIPS .
Yi Tay, Luu Anh Tuan, and Siu Cheung Hui. 2018.
Multi-cast attention networks. In KDD .
Quan Hung Tran, Tuan Lai, Gholamreza Haffari, Ingrid
Zukerman, Trung Bui, and Hung Bui. 2018. The
context-dependent additive recurrent neural net. In
Proceedings of the 2018 Conference of the North
American Chapter of the Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics: Human Language Technologies,
Volume 1 (Long Papers) , pages 1274–1283, New
Orleans, Louisiana. Association for Computational
Linguistics.Mengqiu Wang and Christopher D. Manning. 2010.
Probabilistic tree-edit models with structured latent
variables for textual entailment and question answer-
ing. In Proceedings of the 23rd International Con-
ference on Computational Linguistics , COLING ’10,
pages 1164–1172, Stroudsburg, PA, USA. Associa-
tion for Computational Linguistics.
Mengqiu Wang, Noah A. Smith, and Teruko Mita-
mura. 2007. What is the jeopardy model? a quasi-
synchronous grammar for qa. In EMNLP-CoNLL .
Yi Yang, Wen-tau Yih, and Christopher Meek. 2015.
WikiQA: A challenge dataset for open-domain ques-
tion answering. In Proceedings of the 2015 Con-
ference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing , pages 2013–2018, Lisbon, Portugal. As-
sociation for Computational Linguistics.
Xuchen Yao, Benjamin Van Durme, Chris Callison-
burch, and Peter Clark. 2013. Answer extraction as
sequence tagging with tree edit distance. In North
American Chapter of the Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics (NAACL) .
Wen-tau Yih, Ming-Wei Chang, Christopher Meek, and
Andrzej Pastusiak. 2013. Question answering using
enhanced lexical semantic models. In Proceedings
of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) ,
pages 1744–1753, Soﬁa, Bulgaria. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Radu Florian Zhiguo Wang, Wael Hamza. 2017. Bilat-
eral multi-perspective matching for natural language
sentences. In Proceedings of the Twenty-Sixth Inter-
national Joint Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence,
IJCAI-17 , pages 4144–4150.